#  Puppy Love Backend


## Purpose
 The purpose of this app is to create an interface for users to browse through dogs at their location and then favorite them. If further developed this application could be used to connect users with dog owners or shelters for adoption.

## Ruby version
 This backend directory for the Puppy Finder app uses Ruby 2.6.1

## System dependencies
   Upon downloading this directory please run the following command to ensure that your system dependencies are resolved
   
    bundle install

## Configuration

## Database Creation 
  ### Dogs
  
  Dog data was seeded using rest-client, a popular ruby gem for working with api's, by pulling data from an api found at

     'https://dog.ceo/api/breed/hound/images'.

  Inside of this, we find a a list of dog picture urlsm which contain breed information within the url. In order to pair a dog picture with its breed, a simple .split('/) operation was used to extract breed from the URL.

Dog names were generated by accessing the following URL and parsing it to JSON.

    'https://data.muni.org/api/views/a9a7-y93v/rows.json?accessType=DOWNLOAD'

Each dog was randomly assigned a picture, breed(that matches the picture), name, and some other randomly generated paramters to list boolean features of that dog, ie. Good with kids?.

As intended, dogs cannot be created nor destroyed from the front-end. This is known as the law of the conservation of woof. 

  ### Users
  
  Only a small amount of users were seeded. The functionality of signing in through the website works, so more users can be seeded with no difficulty simply by actually using the application as intended. Users can currently be created from the front-end, and be edited from the front end as well. 

  
  ### Favorites

 Only a small amount of favorites were seeded. The functionality of signing in through the website works, so more favorites can be seeded with no difficulty simply by actually using the application as intended. Favorites can be created from the front end, but not destroyed or updated. In future versions, this will be improved. 
  
## Database Initialization 
  To start this application first run the following command to start the database
  
    rails db:create

  To set up the tables in your database please run the command

    rails db:migrate

  Now that your tables are built, it is time to seed the data. Currently the app is set up to seed data from multiple API's. In order to do this simply run the rails seed file using the following command.

    rails db:seed
  
  Your database should now be seeded with dogs, to increase the amount of dogs you are seeding please change the variable numberOfDogs to whatever you want and then run the seed command again. 

  Inside of your seed file, feel free to change the users that you are seeding. If you would like you can seed no users and no favorites from the seed file and seed the backend from the website itsself by creating a username and adding favorites to your username account. 


